PRETORIA, South Africa, November 10, 2016/APO/ --
                                                
                        South Africa and Botswana will deepen their economic cooperation as President Jacob Zuma tomorrow, 11 November 2016, hosts his Botswana counterpart, His Excellency President Lt General Seretse Khama Ian Khama on the occasion of the 3rd Session of the Botswana-South Africa Bi-National Commission (BNC) in Pretoria.



South Africa and Botswana cooperate in a variety of area including among others, transport, trade and investment, health, education, environmental issues, water, science and technology, agriculture, justice, immigration, energy, finance, culture, security and sport.

South Africa remains one of the major trading partners of Botswana. In 2015, South Africa’s total bilateral trade with Botswana stood at R 57.97 billion.
                            South Africa remains one of the major trading partners of Botswana
                        

There is a large presence of South African companies in Botswana which are involved in various sectors such as housing, food and beverages, construction, retail, hotels and leisure, banking, medical services, etc. These companies continue to contribute to the growth and development of the Botswana economy.

The South African delegation to the BNC will comprise Ms Maite Nkoana-Mashabane, Minister of International Relations and Cooperation; Ms Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula, Minister of Defence and Military Veterans; Ms Naledi Pandor, Minister of Science and Technology; Dr Rob Davies, Minister of Trade and Industry; Minister of Energy, Ms Tina Joemat-Pettersson; Ms Dipuo Peters, Minister of Transport; Ms Nomvula Mokonyane, Minister of Water and Sanitation; and Mr Senzeni Zokwana, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries.

Details of the BNC meeting are as follows:
Date: Friday, 11 November 2016
Time: 10h00 
Venue: Sefako M Makgatho Presidential Guesthouse, Pretoria

Members of the media attending the BNC should please send their names and ID/Passport numbers to Hlomani Baloyi on hlomani@presidency.gov.za  or 083 276 1295. Members of the media are also advised to bring along their valid press cards and ID/Passport documents.

Note as well that nobody wearing jeans, T-shirts and takkies will be allowed into the venue. The dress code is strictly presentable in line with the decorum of the event and the venue.