LAGOS, Nigeria, November 2, 2016/APO/ -- 
                                                
                        Engr Simbi Wabote, Executive Secretary of the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board will convene with legislators including, Senator Donald Alasoadura, Chairman – Senate Committee on Petroleum Resources (Upstream) and Hon Emmanuel Ekon, Chairman of the House Committee on Local Content, and the Nigerian oil & gas industry to discuss sustaining Nigerian Content initiatives in the current economic climate.



Lower oil prices and reduced industry activities have the Nigerian oil and gas industry asking two questions surrounding Nigerian Content compliance requirements. Firstly, what level of compliance is realistic amid the current operating environment? Secondly, what hidden opportunities can be discovered through Nigerian Content initiatives in the oil and gas sector and within other industries?  

Themed ‘Re-energising Nigerian Content for Todays’ Operating Environment’ the 6th annual Practical Nigerian Content (PNC) Forum (www.CWCPNC.com), taking place from 22-24 November 2016 and held in Abuja for the first time, will explore the challenges being faced by industry players and facilitate the development of new strategies to strengthen Nigerian Content in todays’ operating environment. Engr Simbi Wabote, addressing the plans of the NCDMB declared: 

“We are going to take stock of how far we have implemented the Act, where have we made progress and [ask] where do we need to change our tact and strategies? How have we been able to achieve some of the targets set out in the schedule? Where are we in each of those categories and the big ones we need to focus on to move to the next level?”

Dr Anthony Akah, Ag Chairman & CEO of the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission and Inye Kemabonta, Ag National Coordinator for the Office of Nigerian Content in Information & Communication Technology will also join Engr Wabote and Hon Ekon to discuss Nigerian Content legislation and governance in the Power and ICT sectors.
                            The 2016 PNC Forum will also answer key questions and topics raised by key players in Nigeria
                        

Other speakers at the PNC Forum will include:


	Mordecai Ladan, Director, Department of Petroleum Resources
	Dafe Sejebor, Group General Manager, NAPIMS
	Bank Anthony Okoroafor - Chairman, Petroleum Technology Association of Nigeria (PETAN)
	Clay Neff - Chairman, Oil Producers' Trade Section (OPTS)
	Andrew Olotu - Chairman, Petroleum Contractors' Trade Section (OPTS)
	Chiedu Oba, General Manager – Nigerian Content Development,  Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria 
	Olusoga Oduselu, General Manager – Nigerian Content Development, Chevron Nigeria 
	Taofiq Adegbite, Chief Executive Officer, Marine Platforms
	Dele Aikhionbare, Nigerian Content Director, Schlumberger 




See the full speaker line-up here (www.CWCPNC.com/2016-speakers)

The 2016 PNC Forum will also answer key questions and topics raised by key players in Nigeria. Topics will include:


	National Content as a Driver of Domestic Capacity Development & Economic Growth across Sectors
	Interrogating the Practicality of the Nigerian Content Act in Today’s Operating Environment
	Increasing Access to Finance – Rejuvenating Industry Activities in the Nigerian Oil & Gas Industry
	Nigerian Content – a Key to Reduced Cost, Added Value and Optimised Efficiency?
	Creating More Opportunities for Independent Producers in the Upstream Sector
	Exploring International Best Practice for National Content Policy, Implementation & Governance




Download the full programme (CWCPNC.com/download-the-brochure) for more information.

Registration for the conference is open at: www.CWCPNC.com