JUBA, South Sudan, October 27, 2016/APO/ --
                                                
                        On 29 October, the press is invited to the closing ceremony of the EMPRETEC Entrepreneurship Training as part of UNDP’s new Entrepreneurship and Enterprise Development Programme.





A batch of competitively selected 80 South Sudanese entrepreneurs (50% women) will graduate and receive certificate of course completion after acquiring various entrepreneurship skills in a hands-on learning environment. The overall objective of the Entrepreneurship and Enterprise Development Programme is to bring about a transformational change in unleashing the growth potential of micro and small-scale enterprises, transform livelihood farmers to economic farmers by 2019 through entrepreneurial skills development, and the provision of a comprehensive range of business advisory services. The programme has a special focus on unemployed youth and women.


                            The programme has a special focus on unemployed youth and women
                        

The pilot phase of the Entrepreneurship and Enterprise Development Programme is to introduce the EMPRETEC approach and test its suitability for South Sudan. The 6 days training was facilitated by UNCTAD-certified entrepreneurship master trainers from EMPRETEC Ghana Foundation.



What: closing ceremony of the EMPRETEC Entrepreneurship Training

When: Saturday, 29 October 2016 at 3:00pm

Where: Juba Multi Service Training Centre (MTC), behind Juba Football Stadium  

Who:                    


	Hon. Biel Jok Thic, Undersecretary: Ministry of Trade and Industry
	Mrs.  Mary Akech Milla, Director General for Private Sector Development: Ministry of Trade and Industry
	MS. Mary Hillary Wani, Understorey for Labour: Ministry of Labour, Public Service and Human Resource Development
	Rev. John Chol Daau, Director General for Vocational Training: Ministry of Labour, Public Service and Human Resource Development
	Koji Ito, Economic Affairs and Development Cooperation: Embassy of Japan
	Mr. Ola Mislmo, Counsellor, Development Cooperation:  Embassy of Sweden
	Mr. lansana Wonneh, Deputy Representative: UNWOMEN
	Mr. Aligo Manasseh Khamis, Director:  Juba Multi-Service Training Center(MTC)
	Mr.  Jean Luc Stalon, Deputt Country Director(Programmes): UNDP South Sudan